In this chapter, you will add JavaScript code to a web page for Tinley Xeriscapes, a landscaping company that specializes in plants that need minimal watering. A designer has created a new layout for the company’s website, and they would like you to incorporate JavaScript to enhance the functionality of one of the site’s pages.

To open the Tinley Xeriscapes page:

1. Use your code editor to go to the js01 ► chapter folder of your data files.

2. Open the js01_txt.html file in your code editor.

3. Within the head section of the HTML file, enter your name and the date in the Author and Date lines.

4. Save the file as js01.html.

To add the script element to the page:

5. Scroll down to the article element in the js01.html file within your code editor.

6. After the opening <figcaption> tag, type: <script></script>

7. Save your changes to the file.

To apply the document.write() method:

8. Return to the js01.html file in your code editor.

9. Between the opening and closing <script> tags, add the following statements.
    document.write("<p>Plant choices for ");
    document.write("<a href='http://planthardiness.ars.usda.gov'>");
    document.write("hardiness zones</a>");
    document.write(" 5a - 6b </p>");

10. Save your changes to the file and then refresh or reload the s01.html file in your web browser. The page should now display the content created by the four document.write() statements.

11. Click the hardiness zones link from the inserted content and verify that your browser loads a Plant Hardiness Zone map.

12. Return to the js01.html file in your browser.

To add JavaScript comments to the js01.html file:

13. Return to the js01.html file in your code editor.

14. Add the following block comment directly after the opening <script> tag:
    /* Information on available plants including link to USDA website */

15. Position the insertion pointer after the semicolon at the end of the last statement containing the document.write() method, and type the following line comment:
    // hardiness zones for Chicago and surrounding area

16. Save your changes to the file and then reopen js01.html in your web browser. Verify that the JavaScript comments are not displayed in the browser and that the content generated by the document.write() statements has not changed.

To declare variables for three plant images:

17. Return to the js01.html file in your code editor

18. Directly before the closing </script> tag, press Enter and type the following JavaScript statements containing the file names of three plant images:
    // define variables containing plant file Namespace
    let blanket = "image/blanket.jpg";
    let bluestem = "image/bluestem.jpg";
    let rugosa = "image/rugosa.jpg";

19. Save your changes to the file.

To add event handlers to the plants.htm file:

20. Return to the js01.html file in your code editor.

21. Within the aside element, in the opening tag for the first li element, add the following event handler:
    <li id="blanket" onclick="document.getElementById('plantImg').src = blanket">Blanket Flower</li>

22. In the opening tag for the second li element, add the following event handler:
    <li id="rugosa" onclick="document.getElementById('plantImg').src = rugosa">Hedge Rose</li>

23. In the opening tag for the third li element, add the following event handler:
    <li id="bluestem" onclick="document.getElementById('plantImg').src = bluestem">Little Bluestem</li>

To connect to an external JavaScript file:

24. Open the js01_txt.html file in your code editor. Enter your name and the date in the head section of the file.

25. Directly above the closing </head> tag insert the following <script> tag to connect the page to the js01b.js file.
    <script src="scripts/script.js" defer></script>

26. Save the file as js01b.html and close your code editor.

27. Open js01b.html in your web browser.

28. Verify that the hyperlink for hardiness zones appears on the page and that clicking the hardiness zones links opens the appropriate page.

29. Return to the js01b.html file in your browser and verify that clicking the list of plants on the left margin displays the corresponding plant time.